



Standard Communication with Network Elements                     R. Tang
Internet-Draft                                                    Google
Intended status: Informational                           4 December 2024
Expires: 7 June 2025


                  Client Conformance Signal for SCONE
               draft-rjt-scone-conformance-signal-latest

Abstract

   This document proposes conformance signals to be sent by QUIC clients
   to indicate whether they are able to adapt to the bitrate indicated
   by the SCONE signal, so that communication service providers MAY stop
   policing.

About This Document

   This note is to be removed before publishing as an RFC.

   The latest revision of this draft can be found at https://rjt-
   ietf.github.io/SCONE/draft-rjt-scone-conformance-signal.html.  Status
   information for this document may be found at
   https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-rjt-scone-conformance-signal/.

   Discussion of this document takes place on the Standard Communication
   with Network Elements Working Group mailing list
   (mailto:scone@ietf.org), which is archived at
   https://mailarchive.ietf.org/arch/browse/scone.  Subscribe at
   https://www.ietf.org/mailman/listinfo/scone/.

   Source for this draft and an issue tracker can be found at
   https://github.com/rjt-ietf/SCONE.

Status of This Memo

   This Internet-Draft is submitted in full conformance with the
   provisions of BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF).  Note that other groups may also distribute
   working documents as Internet-Drafts.  The list of current Internet-
   Drafts is at https://datatracker.ietf.org/drafts/current/.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   This Internet-Draft will expire on 7 June 2025.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (c) 2024 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
   document authors.  All rights reserved.

   This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
   Provisions Relating to IETF Documents (https://trustee.ietf.org/
   license-info) in effect on the date of publication of this document.
   Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights
   and restrictions with respect to this document.  Code Components
   extracted from this document must include Revised BSD License text as
   described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
   provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

   1.  Introduction
   2.  Conventions and Definitions
   3.  Proposals
     3.1.  Implicit Signal
     3.2.  Explicit Signal
   4.  Security Considerations
   5.  IANA Considerations
   6.  Normative References
   Author's Address

1.  Introduction

   As outlined in the charter, the primary objective of SCONE is to
   facilitate the communication of throughput suggestions between
   traffic throttling network elements and QUIC endpoints.  One of the
   main motivations is the desire to disable traffic shapers and
   policers when possible.  However, the ability for communication
   service providers (CSPs) to unidirectionally send throughput advice
   signals to QUIC endpoints does not provide the CSPs with information
   on whether the QUIC endpoints are conforming to the suggested
   throughput.  As a result, the CSP has no assurance to disable
   throttling.

   A paper
   (https://static.googleusercontent.com/media/research.google.com/
   en//pubs/archive/45411.pdf) was published on the prevalence and
   harmfulness of throughput throttling.  From an ISP's perspective, it
   requires additional machine resources to run traffic shapers and
   policers, and dropped packets result in waste of network bandwidth.
   From a QUIC server's perspective, retransmissions incur extra costs
   to server resources.  From a QUIC client's perspective, packet loss
   harms the user's quality of experience.  Although communicated
   throughput advice SHOULD prevent packets from being dropped by
   traffic policers most of the time, short-duration bursts are common
   within certain types of network connections, causing the problems
   mentioned above.

   In addition to determining the format and delivery method for
   throughput advice, the working group should also establish the
   conditions under which CSPs SHOULD deactivate their traffic shapers
   and transition into trust-and-verify mode, where average throughputs
   are sampled to make sure the content and application providers (CAPs)
   are behaving as expected.

2.  Conventions and Definitions

   The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
   "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and
   "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in
   BCP 14 [RFC2119] [RFC8174] when, and only when, they appear in all
   capitals, as shown here.

3.  Proposals

   The following proposals assume the throughput advice is transmitted
   from network elements to QUIC clients in the format of a TRAIN
   (https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-thomson-scone-train-
   protocol/) packet.  As the technical design of SCONE evolves, the
   proposals in this draft MAY evolve as well.  If the reasoning in this
   draft is well received, conformance signals MAY also be integrated
   into the SCONE technical solution proposal drafts.

3.1.  Implicit Signal

   The traffic throttling network element SHOULD default marks the
   4-tuple flow as conformant when its TRAIN packet is received by the
   QUIC client.  The network element SHOULD not disable traffic shapers
   until it confirms the QUIC client has acked the SCONE signal.  Since
   the network element lacks visibility into QUIC packets containing ACK
   frames, it MAY only deduce the QUIC client's receipt of the signal by
   observing the cessation of TRAIN packet retransmissions by the QUIC
   server.  In the case where the network element gives an
   unrealistically low throughput advice and the QUIC client decides to
   not conform, the client SHOULD not ack the TRAIN packets.  The SCONE
   protocol SHOULD also specify a limit on the number of SCONE packet
   retransmissions.  When the retransmission limit is reached, the QUIC
   server MUST not retransmit any more TRAIN packets, and the network
   element SHOULD consider the current flow ineligible for SCONE and
   keeps its throttling device on.

3.2.  Explicit Signal

   The QUIC client SHOULD signal conformance by echoing back the TRAIN
   packet.  Upon receiving the TRAIN packet, if the decision is to
   conform, the QUIC client SHOULD send back the same TRAIN packet along
   with its ACKs to the QUIC server.  When the client-initated TRAIN
   packet reaches the network element, it SHOULD be dropped and
   throttling devices SHOULD be disabled.  In the case where the QUIC
   client decides to not conform, it SHOULD NOT echo the TRAIN packet
   back.  Since the network element never receives the conformance
   signal, it keeps its throttling devices on.

4.  Security Considerations

   The transmission of the conformance signal must employ the same
   security protection mechanism utilized for the original SCONE
   packets.

5.  IANA Considerations

   This document has no IANA actions.

6.  Normative References

   [RFC2119]  Bradner, S., "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate
              Requirement Levels", BCP 14, RFC 2119,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC2119, March 1997,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc2119>.

   [RFC8174]  Leiba, B., "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC
              2119 Key Words", BCP 14, RFC 8174, DOI 10.17487/RFC8174,
              May 2017, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8174>.

Author's Address

   Renjie Tang
   Google
   Email: rjt.ietf@gmail.com
